Stage 1:

Q.1.1 Consider an example where N = 551, e = 5, d = 101 and c = 243.  Using
      your own words, briefly explain and illustrate the working principle
      of this attack (i.e., how and why it works).
Q.1.2 To prevent the attack, the vendor suggests altering the software: the
      idea is that no matter what error occurs, the same error code will be
      produced.  Explain whether (and why, or why not) this change alone is
      sufficient.
This change alone is not sufficient to prevent this attack, as the attacker
can use side-channel data to still distinguish the errors. For example, if
the errors are thrown as soon as they are found, then it will take less
time for the device to return Error 1 than Error 2. An attacker can use
this difference in timings to distinguish the two errors and still perform
the attack, even if the errors returned are the same.
Q.1.7 Side-channel attacks are often categorised as being either simple or
      differential: how would categorise this attack, and why?
This is a differential side-channel attack, as it involves analysing data
collected from different messages to compute intermediate values, as opposed
to simple attacks which involve graphical analysis of side-channel data.


Stage 2:

Q.2.1 The vendor of this attack target is concerned that news of this attack
      could scare off potential customers; they will make any alteration
      necessary (in software or hardware) to prevent the attack.  Explain
      the options they have, and which one you would recommend.
The ideal method of preventing differential timing attacks is to make the
device isochronous. This means that any decryption runs in a constant number
of cycles, regardless of the private key. This makes differential timing
attacks impossible as the attacker can no longer differentiate between the
number of cycles. This is very difficult to implement in practice due to
operations on some CPUs not running in constant time. But some parts can be
changed to help this, such as always computing the reduction in the
Montgomery Multiplication in both cases and returning the relevant result,
which removes the branch statement exploited in this specific timing attack.

Another option is to use the Chinese Remainder Theorem, so that instead of
performing the exponentiation modulo N, it is performed modulo p and modulo
q. Because p and q are part of the private key, the attacker can't use a
reference model to work out whether or not a reduction is occuring.
Q.2.2 Assuming a Montgomery multiplication takes n (simulated) clock cycles
      on the attack target, estimate the value of n (as accurately as you
      can) and explain how you did so.
Q.2.3 Your implementation of this attack will use some form of statistical
      test.  Explain what test you have used, and how it works.


Stage 3:

Q.3.1 Imagine that instead of influencing data (i.e., the state matrix), a
      fault can influence control-flow (e.g., conditional statements, loop
      structure) somehow during execution.  Stating any assumptions you
      make, give an alternative attack strategy based on this ability.
Q.3.2 The question does not specify how faults are induced.  For the given
      attack target and context, explain one viable approach.
Q.3.4 How do the properties of different AES round functions influence the
      effectiveness of your attack?  More specifically, imagine SubBytes is
      removed: does this help or hinder your attack?


Stage 4:

Q.4.1 As a security consultant, you have been working on a prototype of the
      attack target; before the product is deployed, the vendor is willing
      to make any alteration necessary (in software or hardware) to prevent
      the attack.  Explain the options available, and which one you would
      recommend.
Q.4.2 Your implementation of this attack will target some operation during
      execution of AES.  Identify which operation you target, and explain
      why.  Outline other operation(s) you could have targeted, and why they
      might be a better or worse choice.
Q.4.4 DPA attacks rely on a leakage model; for an Intel 8051, one might
      consider Hamming weight or Hamming distance models for example.
      Explain and justify the choice of model you used (e.g., explain
      why/how the attack target might leak information in this way).
